Tiêu đề: How Do Users Revise Architectural Related Questions on Stack Overflow: An Empirical Study
Tác giả: Musengamana Jean de Dieu, Peng Liang, Mojtaba Shahin, Arif Ali Khan
Ngày: 2024-06-27
Link: https://export.arxiv.org/pdf/2406.18959v3
Chủ đề: ARQ

Abstract: Technical Questions and Answers (Q&A) sites, such as Stack Overflow (SO), accumulate a significant variety of information related to software development in posts from users. To ensure the quality of this information, SO encourages its users to review posts through various mechanisms (e.g., question and answer revision processes). Although Architecture Related Posts (ARPs) communicate architectural information that has a system-wide impact on development, little is known about how SO users revise information shared in ARPs. To fill this gap, we conducted an empirical study to understand how users revise Architecture Related Questions (ARQs) on SO. We manually checked 13,205 ARPs and finally identified 4,114 ARQs that contain revision information. Our main findings are that: (1) The revision of ARQs is not prevalent in SO, and an ARQ revision starts soon after this question is posted (i.e., from 1 minute onward). Moreover, the revision of an ARQ occurs before and after this question receives its first answer/architecture solution, with most revisions beginning before the first architecture solution is posted. Both Question Creators (QCs) and non-QCs actively participate in ARQ revisions, with most revisions being made by QCs. (2) A variety of information (14 categories) is missing and further provided in ARQs after being posted, among which design context, component dependency, and architecture concern are dominant information. (3) Clarify the understanding of architecture under design and improve the readability of architecture problem are the two major purposes of the further provided information in ARQs. (4) The further provided information in ARQs has several impacts on the quality of answers/architecture solutions, including making architecture solution useful, making architecture solution informative, making architecture solution relevant, among others.